$Id$

=for html 
<div id="content">
<H1>PerlDAV -- A WebDAV client library for Perl5</H1>
</div><div id="content">

=begin text

=head1 PerlDAV -- A WebDAV client library for Perl5

=end text

PerlDAV is a Perl library for modifying content on webservers using the WebDAV protocol. Now you can LOCK, DELETE and PUT files and much more on a DAV-enabled webserver. 

The PerlDAV library consists of:

=over 4

=item * 

B<HTTP::DAV> - an object-oriented Web-DAV client API.

=item * 

B<dave> - the DAV Explorer, an end-user Unix console program for interacting with WebDAV servers. dave looks and feels like a standard Unix ftp program.

=back

Learn more about WebDAV at http://www.webdav.org/ (outdated)

=head1 LATEST VERSION AND WHAT'S NEW

The latest version is: v0.39 (released 2009/12/12)

Download: http://search.cpan.org/dist/HTTP-DAV/

=over 4

=item *

B<bug fixes>

Fixed RT #52665 (L<http://rt.cpan.org/Public/Bug/Display.html?id=52665>),
Using dave or C<propfind()> on URLs containing escaped chars (C<%xx>) could fail,
due to upper/lower case differences. Thanks to cebjyre for the patch and test case.

=item *

B<bug fixes>

Fixed RT #14506 (http://rt.cpan.org/Public/Bug/Display.html?id=14506),
about the missing get_lastresponse() method. It was a documentation bug.

Fixed RT #29788 (http://rt.cpan.org/Public/Bug/Display.html?id=29788),
avoid file corruptions on Win32 when calling HTTP::DAV::get() method.

Fixed RT #31014 (http://rt.cpan.org/Public/Bug/Display.html?id=31014),
probably already in v0.34, since it seems related to propfind() "depth" bug.

=item *

B<bug fixes>

Fixed RT #44409 (http://rt.cpan.org/Public/Bug/Display.html?id=44409),
Small bug in HTTP::DAV::put(). Passing a reference as local content resulted
in the "SCALAR(0x12345678)" being logged instead of the real scalar.

=item *

B<bug fixes>

Fixed RT #19616 (http://rt.cpan.org/Public/Bug/Display.html?id=19616),
LWP::UserAgent::redirect_ok() is not changed anymore. We're subclassing
it from HTTP::DAV::UserAgent and overriding redirect_ok() there.

=item *

B<bug fixes>

Fixed RT #42877 (http://rt.cpan.org/Public/Bug/Display.html?id=42877),
HTTP::DAV::UserAgent::credentials() has been modified to behave like
LWP::UserAgent::credentials(), otherwise basic authentication breakages
can occur.

=item *

B<bug fixes>

Fixed a problem with C<-depth> argument to C<HTTP::DAV::propfind()> that
could lead to massive performance degradation, especially when running
C<propfind()> against large folders.
C<-depth> was set to 1 even when passed as zero.

=item *

B<bug fixes>

  - Fixed RT #40318 (http://rt.cpan.org/Public/Bug/Display.html?id=40318),
    about getting single or multiple files directly to \*STDOUT.

=item *

B<bug fixes>

  - Fixed RT #39150 (http://rt.cpan.org/Public/Bug/Display.html?id=39150),
    about downloading multiple files in the same directory.

=item *

B<documentation>

  - Clearly state that Opera Software ASA is now co-maintainer of HTTP::DAV

  - Fixed various inconsistencies in the v0.32 documentation

=item *

B<incompatibilities>

 - Now HTTP::DAV requires Perl 5.6.0+ and Scalar::Util (core in 5.8.x).

=item *

B<bug fixes>

 - Now HTTP::DAV objects are correctly released from memory when
   they go out of scope. Now it should be possible to use multiple instances
   of HTTP::DAV even in long-running processes.

   Was caused by circular references between HTTP::DAV and HTTP::DAV::Resource.

=item *

B<Windows support>

 - Multiple people have confirmed that PerlDAV install and runs under Windows (subject to fixing the binmode bug below).

=item *

B<Apache 2 mod_dav support>

 - Now works with mod_dav under Apache 2.

=back

=for html
<P>See the <A HREF="Changes.html">Changes file</A> for previous releases.</P>

=for text
See the Changes file for previous releases.

=head1 INSTALLING PERLDAV

The lazy way to install PerlDAV:

   $ perl -MCPAN -e shell
   cpan> install HTTP::DAV

Or the normal way:

Retrieve the latest copy from CPAN: http://www.cpan.org/authors/id/P/PC/PCOLLINS/

   $ perl Makefile.PL # Creates the Makefile
   $ make             # Runs the makefile
   $ make test        # Optional (See Interopability below)
   $ make install     # Installs dave and HTTP::DAV

With this method you will first have to install the pre-requisites: LWP and XML::DOM, see L<what are the prerequisites?>.

When you install PerlDAV, the HTTP::DAV library will be installed to your Perl library location (usually /usr/local/lib/perl5) 

C<dave> will be installed to /usr/local/bin. This suits most people but you can modify this by using the INSTALLBIN flag:

   $ perl Makefile.PL INSTALLBIN="/home/pcollins/bin"

=head2 What Are The Prerequisites?

=over 4

=item *

Perl 5.6.0+

=item * 

LWP (Have not tested lower than v5.48) 

=item *

Scalar::Util (standard library from 5.8.0+)

=item * 

XML::DOM (Have not tested lower than v1.26). 
Requires James Clark's expat library:

=back

=head2 Optional Prerequisites.

=over 4

=item *

Crypt::SSLeay if you'd like to use https. Crypt::SSLeay requires the openssl library as well. See Crypt::SSLeay's excellent install instructions for how to get https support into LWP (and hence HTTP::DAV). I've tested HTTP::DAV and Crypt::SSLeay against Apache/mod_dav with the mod_ssl plugin. Works seamlessly.

=item *

MD5 if you'd like to use LWP's Digest authentication.

=back

To get the latest versions of these prerequisite modules you can simply type this at the command prompt:

   $ <install expat>
then:
   $ perl -MCPAN -e shell
   cpan> install LWP
   cpan> install XML::DOM

or if you just 'install HTTP::DAV' the lovely CPAN module should just magically install all of the prerequisites for you (you'll still need to manually instal expat though).

=head2 What Systems Does It Work With?

HTTP::DAV and dave are pure perl so only needs Perl 5.6.0 (or later). PerlDAV is known to run under Windows (although I haven't tried it myself) and should run under all Unix systems.

=head1 WHERE ARE THE MANUALS?

Once you've installed PerlDAV, you can type: 

   $ perldoc HTTP::DAV
   $ man dave

=for html
<P>Or you can view them here:
<A HREF="HTTP-DAV.html">HTTP::DAV</A>,
<A HREF="dave.html">dave</A>.</P>

=head1 GETTING HELP

=head2 The perldav mailing list

There is a mailing list for PerlDAV for use by Developers and Users.  Please see http://mailman.webdav.org/mailman/listinfo/perldav

=head1 THE TEST SUITE & INTEROPERABILITY

You will notice that the standard C<make test> command invokes a large set of test procedures, but most will be skipped.  This standard test is sufficient to give you a good indication that PerlDAV has installed properly.

If you'd like to see how well PerlDAV performs against a particular DAV server then you should set the URL (and username,password) in the test suite t/TestDetails.pm. Then you can run C<make test> again and watch the test suite perform as many operations as the server supports. Please note that the test suite will perofrm well over 200 HTTP requests to your server. 

I have tested PerlDAV against IIS5, mod_dav and the Xythos WFS.

Out of the box, the test suite should NOT fail on any tests.

The test suite is the best way to test interopability between PerlDAV and other servers. I'd really like help with testing PerlDAV's interoperability. So if one or more tests fail against your server please follow the following steps:

=over 4

=item *

Determine which test is failing.

=item *

set DEBUG to on: edit the script and change HTTP::DAV::DebugLevel(0) to (3).

=item *

Delete previous server output: rm /tmp/perldav_debug.txt

=item *

Run that single test again: 

$make test TEST_FILES=t/thetest.t TEST_VERBOSE=1 > testoutput.log

=item *

Then gzip and mail me both testoutput.log and /tmp/perldav_debug.txt with details of the test environment. (My email is at the bottom)

=back

Alternatively, you could have a shot at solving the bug yourself :)

=head1 BUGS and TODO

Need to convert XML::DOM to a DOM Level 2 compliant parser like XML::Gdome.

=for html
<P>See <A HREF="TODO.html">TODO</A> for what is left to be done.</P>

=for text
See TODO for what is left to be done.

=head1 AUTHOR AND COPYRIGHT

This module is Copyright (C) 2001 by

   Patrick Collins
   G03 Gloucester Place, Kensington
   Sydney, Australia

   mailto:pcollins@cpan.org
   Phone: +61 2 9663 4916

All rights reserved.

=head1 MAINTAINER

The current maintainer of HTTP-DAV is Opera Software ASA.
You can contact us at C<opera@cpan.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

You may distribute this module under the terms of either the GNU General Public License or the Artistic License, as specified in the Perl README file.

$Id$

=cut

=for text
** This file was automatically generated from **
** doc/Changes.pod. To edit it, see there.    **

=for html
</div>
